Welcome back everyone.
Let's get started with training your own CNN and of learning all the contents only or the principles
and concepts we're going to dig right into training your own CNN right now.
So before we get started the first thing that we need to do is get some data.
The Cagle is where we're going to head to for the data.
It's called Dogs and cats redux.
If you actually click onto the link which I provide as a PDA we'll bring to you this Web site here by
Cagle cargo is owned by Google.
Now what they have done here is that they provided images of dogs and cats as you know and our previous
lessons is that if you can train any DB learning neural network you must have data.
So we are heading to Keiko for this data.
Now let's walk through the cargo dashboard so that you are comfortable with it.
This is the cargo dogs versus cats redux.
This is the colonel's edition.
So you have the overview which provide the background in terms of what these tasks entails.
You have the leaderboards the colonels as well as discussion topics so you can actually have look at
the tunnels there's a few people who are happy to share the results with codes as well for you to look
through in terms of the data.
This is what we're interested in.
You can actually click download and download before you don't know you do need to actually sign in to
the cargo account that you have if you don't have an account.
Feel free to register one you do unfortunately need to register before you can actually obtained a copy
of it.
Now the next thing is that there are kernels.
There are few that that people are happy to share.
I have my own work here and some favorites.
There are few discussion boards that people want to discuss.
This is always a great way to actually get started with learning.
And finally the leader boards if you look at the public leader boards and you can look at some of these
scores and benchmark yourself against that right now for this exercise what I have done is actually
I've already downloaded this for you.
If you go to the folder there will be the directory is there is actually a folder called data.
If you go into data the actual download the data from Kaggle which is these data source here you have
the test and then you have to train what I have done with the with the data is that I've done all these
to the test and train only place the training data here.
The training is the full set of data where that's provided by Kaggle that does take a while to open
because there are a lot of data in the let me just go there from another direction.
This is the photo and we bring it across.
And if you go into the data under training these are all the pictures.
OK.
And what I have done with the God this has come up.
These are all the data you can exchange scroll to the pictures if you like.
Let's go back to data.
We just closed it off
you may ask that why is there two are the folders these two folders.
The sample data that I extracted out of the training original data sets from Kaggle.
Now this is too large.
Rather it's it's it's not too large it's just the quite large and it takes a while for the training
to be completed.
What I wanted to do is actually just to illustrate to you the in terms of the process or how this can
be done.
And so there's no point especially when you're actually performing the investigation pod to actually
use the whole dataset it's better that you actually get your model up and running before you actually
run your complete training.
You're training on the complete data set.
It's better to use a small sample a couple of thousand pictures to play around with your neural network
architecture and once you're happy with it then training on the full data set.
The reason is that loading these pictures especially when you have a lot of them the training time can
be quite substantial.
In fact it can take up to weeks if you're online not mine for that.
So when optimizing your time and being mindful of that is really important.
So let me just control B to minimize step or command be in Mac so let's walk through these codes that
I've provided.
This is core 1 to 1.
Cats and dogs.
Dawn.
Thought I Python notebook.
So if you look at this these some of these comments are originally from cargo.
I'm going to leave it there with imported name PI.
This is for linear algebra and also computation of import appendages and also CV 2.
This is computer vision too.
I won't actually walk through and explain what is CV to it.
It's an API on its own.
It's actually open source library.
There's lot of useful information in there especially when it comes to manipulating images and videos.
Of course we make use of the usual map plot lip high plot for plotting purpose the style that we're
using as DG plot popularized by R and we importing psychic land model selection to spit out data into
training as well as test set and we are gonna work with images that has height of 128 pixels and width
of hundred and twenty eight pixels you can ignore these comments.
We are importing two more packages.
One is import os the other one is in post as hedge you two forward file copying right.
Your running and when you're running in this for the first time you do need to actually copy these into
these two folders.
Now you don't have to do that yourself.
I've already written the code for you.
First thing you need to do before you copy the file is that you do need to create the directories.
That's what these are for.
The source data underscore dir here which is this line of code.
At points your code of informed Python that the source for that is within data and the phone to call
chain.
The next thing is to try when you actually tried to create a directory to already exist.
You will get an error message.
Okay.
That's why I used to try.
If there is an error it basically means that the directory already has been created.
Then don't create.
Skip the whole portion altogether.
Skip those steps steps all the kinda so I have four things here.
One is basic using the always package operating system to make directory.
We're trying to make training set or split our data into training set as well as validation set we have
within the training set another sub folder core cats and a supported called docs that's where we're
going to place all of the images are ha cats and dogs and the validation set is for validating our model.
Again we have cats and dogs for that.
So this first portion of the code is try to make these directory.
That's what the M Cadia stands for is try to make the directory.
Failing that meaning the under the situation whereby the directory is already created an arrow will
be drawn up.
Then this is where the catching of the exception comes in to pass meaning paths passed the meaning of
passes that don't perform the above codes at all.
The next thing is we perform listing off the directory the files in the data folder.
The sub photo trainings underscore set and Kent's folder.
This list directory is such that we're running this line of code.
If O S list directory is equal to blank all right.
Meaning that for that doesn't have any pictures then perform the following.
Again what you don't want to do is that every time when you run the codes this get run and then you
copying many many pictures and quite often the same pictures being copied over.
You don't want to do that.
Hence I have this if statement.
If the copying has already been done then don't copy any more so hence the comment there that says if
the folder contains no picture then start copying.
Right.
What are we doing.
Let me just minimized it.
We are copying two thousand cat pictures and copying from the source data directory.
Data dir which is defined here.
Data on the score or backslash train we're copying cats picture from the source directory to the training
directory.
Again we'll copy another two thousand pictures of dogs.
All right.
From the source directory to the training set directory and the sub for the core dogs.
Again we copy 500 pictures.
All right.
The pictures that has the name from two thousand to two thousand five hundred copying from the source
directory to the cats validation some photo validation some for the cats.
Again we do the same with the dogs.
So essentially what are these few line of codes as doing what we are doing here is that we copying two
thousand pictures put it in the training directory and the cats and dogs respectively and then we are
copying another 500 for cats and dogs and pack them under the validation.
Then the question is What is this line of code mean.
Right.
This is basically a false statement.
For I in range 2000 when you use the range command basically it will list or provide iteration of 0
1 2 3.
Essentially a list so when you actually run the for loop I become 0 1 2 3 and this part here is just
basically creating the file name core cat dot 0 dot J Peg Cat dot one dot j peg dot to dot JPA on and
on it goes for the first two thousand.
So we're creating these.
This will become because you can see here there's a bracket.
So that's a list comprehension.
So you have created a list containing cat dot 0 dot GPA comma Cat 1 dot GPA on and on and goes for the
first two thousand.
It will stop at Cat dot 1 9 9 9 dot J PAC.
So basically we have two thousand file names there and we're running another full loop here looping
over the list.
So basically the next part here is asking or telling Python to copy these files from the source directory
to the training directory with cats.
If we come over here you'll notice that the name is indeed kept on 0 dot JPA so we know what the file
names looks like.
And then we copy it over let's go to the training set.
You notice the directory structure is that this.
There's two s folders cats and dogs.
If I click cards you'll notice that the pictures has been copied over and there are two thousand items
in this folder for the dog.
Likewise dot dot dot 0.
Likewise two thousand is always good to visually check this just to make sure that everything has been
done in accordance to your wish and what you will require.
And that's basically what I want to cover here.
This is really the preparation before the data pre processing what we've done here literally is create
the data set for us to start training our model.
But there are some more things that we need to do in terms of preparing our data as well as creating
the neural network.
We'll do that in the next video.
Thank you once again for watching.